house impeachment helped or hindered
Donald Trump's reelection campaign and
should we care do you care Tonya I do
care
yes and what's your view I think it has
helped it has helped its plays into the
idea of him versus them for his voters
and what makes you care about it why do
you think we should care here because I
think if we do values the impeachment I
mean that wasn't the purpose but it was
meant to be and if it can be used like
this is a political tool what does that
mean kind of going forward okay Adam
what's your view on this I think
anything you throw at Donald Trump at
this point just isn't gonna stick I look
at this point he's a mud monster and
it's just throwing what what in all or
make them stronger I don't know I don't
have a survivor picture the number of
Republicans in the Senate I think is how
he's involved it was just a numbers game
in the end wasn't it yeah I guess that's
true but I don't know just give more
pressure more momentum going into the
reelection that's happening and it's
just in the first place even and do you
think it matters does here what we're
gonna be negotiating with the whoever
wins this 2020 election on a trade deal
I'm back in April Barack Obama said it
could take up to ten years to negotiate
a successful trade deal with the
Eurasian there's been research done on
average any country entering trade
negotiation of the US and I always take
five years and we don't Trump is much
more bullish about it it's like 1/2
years negotiating three and a half
implementation and so yeah I think it
does matter I think we individual in the
one house that we are negotiating with
once real easy you properly at the end
of the Samba
absolutely I've just come to end there
come to you region um I think it may
have
proves his re-election shot their
chances and I deeply regret that because
we should care about it because this man
in the White House is one of the biggest
blocks to action on things like climate
change this man the White House has
actually hit with his foreign policy
created great instability in places like
North Korea in the Middle East as a
progressive politician I find his
approach to two women to Muslims to
Mexicans quite outrageous I hope he
loses in November I think that would be
a real step forward for the world and
for those of us who care about the
rights of ordinary people I think it's
very difficult to tell the moment we're
still trying to see who the Democrats
are present is I hope they choose
someone who can beat Donald Trump
because that's in the interest of
everyone in the rest of the world nature
well it might have helped him but it was
still the right thing to do you know
because he did abuse the power of his
office and it was corrupt so the
Democrats were right to pursue it I
don't think they could have ignored it
but what we saw just now that was not a
trial with a Senate a trial with no
witnesses and no documentation and they
had john bolton republican willing to
testify saying hey by the way i want to
testify i've got something to say about
this but another way of looking at that
is their system and they you know that
they went along with their system and
this is a result they Wow they went
along with their system and I think that
is that is to their shame the fact that
they were prepared to have a trial that
wasn't a trial I think everybody can see
that everybody can see what happened
there and does it matter yes of course
it does I mean I think for you know
people who are progressive leftist or
liberals there are there aren't that
many reasons to be cheerful right now
globally and so we are all watching the
US election
you know and kind of willing the
Democrats to just get it together and
and win this time yeah we can say that's
the system but we're also dependent on
the integrity of the individuals Donald
Trump did abuse his office in the way
that he was accused of Miss Romney
recognized that and with some integrity
voted for impeachment and the rest of
the Republicans said in effect yes he
may be a bully but he's our bully he's
our sides he's on our side so we're
going to support him that's what's going
on
I'm worried that our prime minister is
beginning to resemble the man in the
White House and his treatment of
minorities but also press freedom and
how he treated journalists the other day
and refused them entry into a briefing
[Applause]
let's just stick with Donald Trump for a
moment Estela
how's the impeachment helped or hindered
his campaign should we care yeah I think
we should care because when you
normalize politics without rules it has
consequences for making it look more
acceptable in other parts of the world I
mean I think you're right sir who would
have thought a couple of years ago that
Mitt Romney would appear to be a kind of
progressive
arrow but the right thing he said what
he thought was right and he will take
the consequences in the rubber cabin
Republican movement and we are in a
politics right now there are very many
tactics of American politics are being
imported into British politics in terms
of how people campaign in terms of
people's arguments about whether experts
an expertise matter I think we should
all be worried because it is driven in
America so much by money it's not driven
by democracy and actually we're seeing
that in the Democrat movement as well
what I worry about is that once somebody
has been able essentially to get away
with it once why not do it again and why
not then in this country start saying
well you know what actually if in
America people don't accept having all
the press there and the difficult press
scrutiny why not do that here if it's
okay to you know not have clarity about
what you're doing with your Russian
oligarchs in America why not do that in
the UK it becomes a very slippery slope
all of us as politicians should always
be slightly uncomfortable that were
being scrutinized that is a good thing I
don't think that Donald Trump feels that
tonight and that is a bad thing I think
I do agree with celebrate the sense of
discomfort I think that's absolutely the
place that all of us need to be and the
great thing about our system is that you
know I can't sit in an ivory tower I
have to come an answer to colleagues at
questions and indeed to make statements
and be held accountable upon that I
think whilst I'm not gonna get into the
weeds of the American campaign I think
their system is shall we say a rather
interesting one in that in a genuine
attempt to try and get separation of
powers right the executive power of the
President does mean that he or she is
rather remote I think from what goes on
day to day on the hill and but what has
happened in American politics is that
the tradition of working across the
aisle which was a huge part of the
United States Senate for most of its
history has gone we've heard about Mitt
Romney he is a really a real throwback
to a past that is within living memory
of many of us when the great men and
women of the Senate actually put their
hands across the aisle and worked
together for the United States of
America now that has vanished and the
lesson I think for us is this you know
in all the parties an early burley that
we've had over the last few years I
think all of us need to look in the
mirror
ask politicians here in the UK and
remember that there is so much that
unites us we are all trying to get to
the same goal we might disagree about
the means by which we do it but we are
and should be men and women of honor and
yes trust that's been a really difficult
thing for a lot of people recently and
that sense of disco
things is what I think we need to hold
on to as we learn the lessons of some of
the extreme politics that we're seeing
not just in the USA but also close to
that you feel that sense of discomfort
instead of doing a deal with Donald
Trump then if your other son discomfort
witness I think today with the impeach
the government has shown its
independence of mind on issues like
Huawei we are far from assuming the
position of supplicant you have to deal
with the present United States whoever
they happen to be and the office is the
office now you know I've got my personal
views but as a represent about Donald
Trump and Boris Johnson being safe hang
on what look I think apart from the hair
color I do not see you that much yeah
you know commonality between a classical
scholar some easy comparisons are made
which actually are not borne out by the
evidence what I want to see United
States is the Democratic Party
organizing its caucuses efficiently so
that we know what the results are gonna
be and that the candidate who they
produce will provide a proper contest
rather than something that will be a
roll over I mean Trump has been as
confounded the rules of politics in a
way that perhaps some of us you know
I'll admit I'm a quite a conventional
sort of person in the way that I do my
politics find you know difficult and
challenging but you know elections or
elections we have to work with whoever
is democratically elected challenging
Robert I mean where do you start with
the Wayne with his treat minorities when
you treat women what he's done he nearly
caused World War 3 with Iran that's not
difficult and challenging he abused his
office of statement to be able to pick
on a political and again this isn't just
bad manners
this is terrible politics a people now
again and again our foreign policy was
distinct from that of the
Trump White House and that we do support
the nuclear deal and have done our best
to try and invoke the dispute resolution
mechanism because we believe when we
sign treaties we believe in due process
of international law so that's the
United Kingdom actually having a
distinct position from that and yeah
you've rolled out the red carpet for him
to come to this country because we're
weak in the world right now rather than
strong - okay all right tell him when
he's got things wrong and we're all
demeaned by as a result
[Applause]
[Music]